Rework the Lifecycle policies page (#784)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/ROOT/pages/policies.adoc

All these policies may evolve as we learn what works best for our customers and for us.

These policies were last updated in *September 2025*.

== Stackable Data Platform lifecycle policy

NOTE: This policy concerns releases of our platform as a whole and how long and to which extent we support each version.

We do releases of our Stackable Data Platform.
These releases get a name based on the year and month they have been released in (e.g. `25.3`, `25.7`, also called https://calver.org/[CalVer{external-link-icon}^]).
This name does not follow Semantic Versioning (https://semver.org/[SemVer{external-link-icon}^]).
We may release patches for a release, which then follow the PATCH naming semantics of SemVer (e.g. `24.7.1`) or the _Micro_ name from CalVer.
See below for our policy on patches for the SDP.

We support an SDP release for a specific amount of time after its initial release.

> An SDP release contains our operators and other code developed at Stackable as well as the data product docker images.

Reviewer: They are not all "data" products? 
```suggestion
An SDP release contains our operators, other components developed at Stackable, and the operator-managed product Docker images.
```

> An SDP release contains our operators and other code developed at Stackable as well as the data product docker images.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/commit/1e805e872d5aa8fe9c315d6e49398543676564eb

We _may_ release new patch releases of a SDP release (e.g. `24.11.1`) for any issues we deem Critical or High (see definition below) once fixes become available.
We may release patches for other reasons.

image:maintenance_phase.png[Maintenance Phase]

== Upgrade policy

IMPORTANT: Skipping SDP releases while upgrading is currently not supported.
The only upgrade path we test and support is from one SDP version to the next (e.g., 24.11 → 25.3 → 25.7).

Customers are expected to upgrade their SDP environment to the most current supported patch/micro (`25.7.z`) version.

We test and support upgrades for both our Kubernetes operators and data products.
There can be exceptions from this policy for specific data product upgrade paths.
These are documented in our release notes.

NOTE: Downgrades and rollbacks are not supported or tested.
While they may work in some cases, customers who downgrade do so at their own risk and without our support.

== CRD Versioning lifecycle policy

IMPORTANT: As of release 25.7 all our CRDs are versioned as `alpha1`.

> Starting with release 25.11 we will introduce versioned CRDs (beta/stable) for some products.

Reviewer 2: I leave it up to you
```suggestion
Starting with release 25.11 we will likely introduce versioned CRDs (beta/stable) for some products.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/commit/1e805e872d5aa8fe9c315d6e49398543676564eb
